>> Will Sentance: All right folks,
so here we go, let's jump in,
line one, what are we doing to Ethan.
That phrasing was very strange, line one,
what are we doing, comma, to Ethan.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: I'm declaring
the function outer.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent,
thank you, Ethan,
there it is, Outer, okay,
Save, next line, Ethan.
>> Speaker 2: And then we are declaring
the constant myNewFunction.
>> Will Sentance: Very nice,
myNewFunction,
any idea what to store in there, Ethan?
>> Speaker 2: Not yet.
>> Will Sentance: No,
because we've gotta go ahead and do what?
>> Speaker 2: We have to call Outer?
>> Will Sentance: You put it perfectly,
exactly,
we've got to go and
put Outer on the call stack.
There it is on the call stack,
always got global on the bottom.
One global execution context,
many function level execution contexts.
It's uninitialized for now while we
head off and run Outer, that's right,
everybody, take that deep breath,
it's coming.
>> Will Sentance: We've got to execute
Outer, its results when we sort of
myNewFunction is returned values
when we sort myNewFunction.
We need a brand new?
>> Speaker 3: Execution context!
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful, thank you
Mark, thank you to everybody, here it is.
I'm going to try and draw,
look at this, I'm going to try and
draw the other line straight this time.
That's not as bad as usual,
right, not as bad as usual.
Okay, into it we go and
in our local memory first
thing we save, Kayla?
>> Speaker 4: We're going to
declare a counter variable to zero.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, send it to 0,
that literally means, people,
it used confuse me and I used to think.
Maybe it's like just sort
of saying counter is 0.
No, literally we took that label,
that word,
put it in the computer's memory 0s and 1s.
Pull that 0, put it in the computer's
memory, it is absolutely stored.
Okay, next line, Braden,
what are we to say to do here?
It's a funny sort of single line,
but it's hopefully clear.
>> Speaker 2: So you're declaring
the function increment counter.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful, now I'm going
to do it definition in a different color.
Braden, is this function being cored,
being invoked, being run right now, or are
we instead doing something else with it?
>> Speaker 2: We're doing
something else with it.
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely,
we are not running it,
is not going on our call stacks up here.
Instead we grabbing it and
doing what with it, Braden?
>> Speaker 2: Returning
it to myNewFunction.
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely,
returning it out to myNewFunction.
It's going to be the output
of calling outer, and
we're gonna store it in myNewFunction.
Again, it was born as incrementCounter,
but we're not gonna call it that anymore.
That was its birth,
thatt's sort of Its original name.
Now it's been returned out and
it's now stored as myNewFunction.
People, this execution context and
everything in it, what happens to it?
Deleted, gone, a thread wove in and
it wove out and
the execution context is deleted.
Hope that's not too messy there,
we can see this clearly, [SOUND] gone.
What happens to on
the call stack everybody?
It's popped off,
I should have made it clearer,
popped is to take something off a stack,
it's just a fancy word for removing it.
And push is to add on to the stack.
So add on to a stack, in this case,
a stack of calls to functions,
running of functions, has gone.
And we're back out to global,
where we hit what line, Jeff?
What is that line we hit in global?
>> Speaker 2: We call myNewFunction.
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely, and
in terms of our call stack, Jeff,
what's gonna happen?
>> Speaker 2: Create
a new execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, and all the tool
stack that we are going to add.
>> Speaker 2: MyNewFunction.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
the call to myNewFunction,
perfect, nice handwriting.
All right, brand new execution context,
I saved you all from injury go,
that never works.
Injury go and we go and what is our
line of code as our local memory?
What is that line of code that we
hit inside of this function, Mark?
It's now called myNewFunction, but
it was born as increment counter.
Our eyes are gonna creep back up the page,
jobs is not doing that.
It has literally the code of that
function saved over here, and
that code is, the exact words, Mark?
What are the exact that words
of the code of myNewFunction,
formerly increment counter?
What's the exact code it's gonna run?
Actually, I've got to
get this one to Todd.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, Counter ++
>> Will Sentance: Counter ++, well done,
Todd, exactly, there it is counter ++.
Green is my look-up color,
where do I look first, Todd?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so
you look in your local memory.
>> Will Sentance: Do I find counter?
>> Speaker 2: Do not.
>> Will Sentance: Where am I
running myNewFunction, Todd?
>> Speaker 2: In the global.
>> Will Sentance: And so everything
intuitively would say where do I
look next, Todd?
>> Speaker 2: In the global memory.
>> Will Sentance: In global,
thank you, man.
Do I find counter in global?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely not,
this is a disaster [SOUND] disaster.
What a strange language that let's
save functions, return them out,
call them, and try and
use data [SOUND] that's gone.
We're running myNewFunction in global,
we look in myNewFunction, no counter.
And we look out to global, no counter.
Raise your hand if you already know
the answer to what's gonna happen here.
So not necessarily clear,
right, this is a mystery.
And who knows if the people who
raise their hands even know?
For this is very mysterious,
we don't exactly.
How long can I play it out,
[SOUND] very sad.
God, this is just silly,
we didn't find our counter hmm,
why would we do all this work?
How awkward can I make
this by how long [LAUGH.
Why do we do all this work
if only not to find counter?
This is a disaster, this is a disaster!
And yet, people, you know what?
There's something we didn't say here.
It turns out that when I took that
increment counter function definition,
all its code.
And returned it out as the output of
running Outer [SOUND] into myNewFunction.
I got more than just the code
of the function counter ++.
I got more than just saved code,
the function definition.
People, I got something so, so
powerful in addition, check this out.
This is very, very special,
this is an elegant feature of JavaScript.
I got this,
when I returned this function out,
I got something else with that function.
As that function left,
it took with it all, and
we'll add some caveats
on this in a moment.
It took with it all the surrounding
data from where that function was saved,
where it was born, where it was stored.
It grabbed its surrounding data,
and brought it out and
to sort of show it on its journey.
[SOUND] [LAUGH] it brought all
that surrounding data out,
racing along with a function
on the back of the function.
Yes, yes, you like little functions?
At this point it's parody, isn't it?
On the back of the functions,
like a little backpack on the function.
Yes, online viewers, like a backpack,
it's a legitimate technical term,
it's a real thing.
On the back of the function, as the
function came out, it brought on its back,
all the surrounding data,
little bit of a caveat on that.
All its surrounding data, brought on
the back of the function, attached.
And when we saved that formerly known
as incrementCounter function into
myNewFunction.
We didn't just get
the function definition.
We got attached onto it a backpack from
when that function was born of live data,
and there counter is 0.